# POLYNOMIAL_CALCULATOR API v1.0

## DESCRIPTION:

This application calculates a random polynomial, provides by user
using Newton-Raphson method. the polynomial format is:
f(x) = p(x) + k*cos(x) <br>
where:<br>
p(x) is a random polynomial provided by the user<br>
k is a constant provided by the user.

The p(x) is in a list format, where the length of the list is the power
of the polynomial, the first item is the value for the higher power if the polynomial.
The values provided is related to the index of that power.

Example:

values provided for the polynomial (also referred as N_values ):
[ 4,2,5,3]

This list generates this polynomial:
4x³ + 2x² + 5x¹ + 3x⁰<br>
(This polynomial is generated with numpy library)

Also, you need to provided a initial value, a max iteration value and a tolerance value.

The initial value is the reference value to start the newton optimization
The max iteration value is how many times the api will iterate to reach the result, 
with a parameter relative to it's tolerance.<br>(The final result is provided by the scipy library, with scipy.optimize.newton.)

In the end of the process, you can generate a graphic for the function, that goes to -10 < x < 10.
It generate a svg file in svg format, where the url is provided in the response of the request.<br>
(The graphic is generated by plotly library.)


## INITIAL CONFIGS(for cloned repository):

### 1 - Virtual Environment(venv):
1.1 - Creating venv

On terminal, in foodlabs folder, type:

```bash
python -m venv venv
```

1.2 - Entering venv

still on terminal, in foodlabs folder, type:

```bash
source venv/bin/activate
```

(if everything works correctly, a (venv) word should
 appear before the current path on terminal.)
____________________________________________________

### 2 - Installing requirements:
(You should have the venv activated, otherwise it won't work correctly)

To install all the packages that is needed to this repo, type on terminal:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
_______________________________

### 3 - Start server:

To run django server, on terminal, type: 

```bash
./manage.py runserver
```

Now the API is ready to interact with the endPoints listed below!
__________________________________________________________________________


## ENDPOINTS

Base URL:

```url
https://optimize-polynomial.herokuapp.com/
```

Obs: for a cloned repo in local, use:

```url
localhost:5000/
```

### POST /request/  -> Get a zero of the equation. May return zero not found if didn't found a zero.

____________________________________________________

body:

```json
{
	"n_values": 
	[1,10,0]
,
	"k_value" : 1,
	"initial_value" : 1,
	"max_iterations": 500,
	"tolerance": 10
}
```

response:

```json
{
 "Eq_zero": -0.03420005651372309
```


### POST /graphic  -> generates a graphic and responds with a url


response:

```json
{
  "url": "fig1054135.svg"
}
```
